what if there was an easy way to turn
any photorealistic Shader into a
stylized one within minutes with the
amount of free photo realistic materials
online it's really easy to just download
drag and drop in materials to make a
finished model but not so easy if you
want your models to be stylized and
especially not in the anime style which
is why I'm going to teach you exactly
how you can turn nearly any photo
realistic Shader into a finished anime
stylized material and I'll also add a
little bone tip in there for you that
will make all of your anime materials
look even better so keep an eye out for
that but first welcome to the comfy mug
Channel my name is Christian and I spend
countless hours learning how to make
anime stuff in blender so that you don't
have to so if you want to gain years of
experience and knowledge in only a
fraction of the time make sure to like
the video and subscribe with
notifications so you don't miss out and
check out my patreon the first tier is
only $2 a month and you get custom Bill
assets made by me at the start of each
month I really appreciate your support
there as it makes it possible for me to
continue making these tutorials on
YouTube but with that all out of the way
let's get into the video now for the
sake of this tutorial I linked the base
project file in the description for you
guys to follow along if you want oh and
also if you don't have this enabled
already node Wrangler is an incredible
tool to navigate the Shader editor a lot
quicker as for the types of materials
I'll be working with I have one smooth
and one rough material and as the method
for changing a rough photorealistic
material into a a stylized anime one
builds off of the steps it takes to do
the same for a smooth material I'll be
starting this tutorial with the smooth
PBR wood material here and hide the rock
for now as a rule of thumb nearly every
photorealistic Shader will have three
outputs the color roughness and normal
or bump displacement outputs using all
of these outputs together is what makes
a 3D texture look realistic but when
making a stylized texture especially in
the anime style most of the time the
only output we will want to use is the
color so if you're following along with
me in this project you can delete all
the other outputs as well as the
principal bsdf leaving just the base
color and the texture group node if
you're working in a different project
and your Shader uses image texture nodes
the only one you will need to keep is
the image texture and other nodes if
there are any that are connected to the
color of the principal bsdf once we've
cleaned up the Shader a little we want
to add a diffuse bsdf Shader to RGB
brightness and contrast node and two
mixed color nodes connect the nodes as
you see on screen making sure to connect
the color output of the original
photorealistic Shader into the diffus
color input we'll then want to increase
the brightness to 0.3 and the contrast
to 0.6 and crank the color stops as you
see on screen each of these steps will
vary a little depending on the specific
material you use but the main goal in
doing this is to reduce the amount of
detail in a given texture to simplify
the look and give it a stylized effect
we'll then connect the color amp to our
first mix colors factor and change the a
color to a darker tan and the B color to
a lighter tan but after we found the
colors we want will connect the result
to the a input of our next mix color and
change it to color Dodge this will allow
us to put a third more saturated color
into the B input that will influence the
overall color and make our material pop
more I like to use a bright orange for
wood and turn down the factor to 0.3 but
this all depends on what kind of look
you want your Shader to have no wrong
answers here now we could stop there but
I always like to give my shaders the
ability to react to different colored
lights in a given scene so all we have
to do for this is Select our diffuse and
Shader to RGB press shift d to duplicate
them and bring our new nodes to the very
front of our Shader connecting the
result of our color Dodge to the color
input of our new diffuse and to add the
cherry on top for this Shader I'll use
the inverted hole method to give the
object an outline with a slightly darker
and more saturated color I go over this
method and other methods of how to add
outlines to your materials in my anime
outlines tutorial so make sure to check
that out after this video if you want to
heighten the stylized look for your
anime renders and just like that we've
turned a smooth surfaced photorealistic
material into a fully stylized anime
Shader but there are a few more steps
required in order to do the same for a
more rough looking material so what
we'll want to do is Select and copy all
of the nodes we added for our smooth
surface material make our Rock visible
again and paste the nodes into the
Shader of our Rock now if we plug the
color output into our stylized node
setup as is it won't look as good as
we'd like it because there's too much
cloudy detail in the original image so
what we'll want to do instead is get rid
of our regular mix color and change our
color ramp to constant making the white
stop a little bit grayer and connect the
color to the a input of our color Dodge
oh and also change the orange color to a
sky blue color or something like that at
this point we'll need to adjust the
color amp a bit so that we can actually
start to get the light and Shadow
interaction on our object and because
this is more of a rough and detailed
rock material we'll want to make a few
two more color stops each one gradually
getting darker and darker as they get
closer to the black stop I ended up with
eight color stops in total and it was a
little difficult to see them all in such
a small space so if you need to just
stretch out the edge of the node so you
can see the color stops a little better
the idea for this is to have four main
value shifts and a subtle value shift in
between each big shift to make it look
like a more gradual change to counteract
the harsh transitions between color
stops but if that was confusing to you
which it was pretty confusing for me to
say all you need to do is make it look
something like what you see on screen
here there is no right or wrong way to
do this once you've gotten a look you
like you can add another outline to your
object and you'd think that we'd be done
here but as a bonus tip for you guys I'm
actually going to teach you how to do
something so simple and subtle you
barely even visually notice it but it
makes any and all of your 3D shaders
instantly look like they belong in a 2d
anime world together and to show you
what I mean we have to take a look at a
scene in an anime called chainsaw man
now when I first saw this scene nothing
really stood out to me the colors of the
scene are all pretty bland and calm
nothing out of the ordinary right until
I went back and watched this very short
clip and realized that the chairs are 3D
they wouldn't have that Parallax effect
if they weren't and you can even see
that same parallax effect very subtly on
the Train's window curtains and then I
realized that I had my settings at the
highest quality but there was still a
lot of noise and Grain on every surface
in the scene only the characters seemed
to have less grain the higher the
quality of the video and then the more I
watched this and other anime the more I
became convinced that the secret to
making anime style shaders in 3D is to
add this subtle noise so a super easy
way to do this for any given Shader is
to add a mix color just before the
diffuse set it to Overlay add a color
ramp connected to a white noise texture
press contrl t on that white noise to
add a mapping and texture coordinate
node with the vector set to object
connect the color to the B input and
voila it is perfect apply this to every
Shader in your scene and no matter how
close or far away from an object you get
the noise will stay the same size
instantly making all of your objects
look like they belong together in a
scene but go check out my anime outlines
tutorial to make your anime renders even
more cohesive and stylized remember to
like And subscribe and tell me about the
photorealistic shaders you were able to
stylize with the help of this tutorial
in the comment section below I want to
say thank you so incredibly much to my
patrons who have continued to support me
and engage in my community you guys are
literally helping make my dream come
true and I can't tell you how much hope
you have given me thank you guys and
thank you the viewer for watching the
video I hope you all have a comfy day
and I'll see you here next time at the
comfy mug
[Music]